# Coding-1-Final-Project---FINAL-MIMIC
James Gibbons-Macgregor Coding 1 Final Project
James Gibbons-Macgregor: Coding One Final Project: Read Me File

This project is focused on a THREE.js environment that features experiments with multiple methods of geometry and texture creation. It also explores animation of these objects. 
It also features a modulating GLSL object and Maximillian based audio.

The concept was to create a 3D gallery space that contained examples of various ‘art works’. There was initially a plan to use raycasting to have each artwork trigger a sound sample 
when clicked. However after a number of failed attempts to implement this I opted for a more simple ‘soundtrack’ created with Maximillian. 

At present the only instructions are to move around with the mouse and enjoy the sights and sounds of the world!

ELEMENTS:

THREE.js:

There are a number of built in geometric shapes used such as cubes for the skybox and main structures. Also toruses and an octahedron that are animated to create the central sculpture.

The more complex geometries are found in the corner ‘light pillars’ and rotating ‘roof’. The pillars are a randomized series of points generated by a for loop within a buffer geometry,
connected by a line material. The roof is made from a heavily modified LatheGeometry system, with the points array mapped to an atan function, and the mesh replaced with a wireframe. 

There is an animated light with a shadow system that will eventually move outside the skybox to simulate a sundown.  

GLSL:

I found the GLSL coding the most challenging part of this project. I understand the concepts but struggle with the syntax. The GLSL object is a sphere which has randomized oscillator
controlled vertex modulation to create the pulsating/changing shape. The fragment shader uses a colour diffusion technique (credit to Inigo Quilez) that I have modified to be animated
by time modulated sine waves. Applying rotation animations outside of GLSL in the draw function adds an enjoyable glitchy effect.  

Maximilian:

I encountered a number of errors when using Maximillian, this turned out to be stemming from using an older version of the library. This prevented me from properly using delay and 
reverb effects. However the basic audio track still works. It is based around the modulo controlled playhead looping technique. In the near future I plan to get the current 
version of Maximilian setup and fully utilize the effects and filters, mostly on the percussion elements of the track. 

GOING FORWARD:

This was the first time I have created a 3D environment in any software and I have really enjoyed working with THREE.js. Audio and visual experiences within 3D space are 
something I'm very interested in exploring further, especially within VR. While there are elements of this project that need improvement, particularly the GLSL shaders,
I think it is a good starting point to build from. 
